# IMPR-Lecture-2

## Gruppeopgaver:

- [Opgave 11 side 125](src/exercise-PSPDC-125-11.c) i Problem Solving and Program Design in C, eighth edition. 
Check også lige at phytagoras' sætning er opfyldt for de to beregnede sider og hyptenusen.
  - The Pythagorean theorem states that the sum of the squares of the sudes of a right triangle is equal to the square of the hypotenuse. For example, if tw sides of a right triangle have lengths of 3 and 4, then the hypotenuse must have a length of 5. Together the integers 3, 4, and 5 form a Pythagorean triple. There are an infinite number of such triples. Given two positive intergers, `m` and `n`, where `m>n`, a Pythagorean triple can be generated by the following formulas:
   ```
  side1 = m^2-n^2
  side2 = 2mn
  hypotenuse=m^2+n^2
  ```
  The triple (`side1=3`, `side2=4`, and `hypotenuse=5`) is generated by this formula when `m=2` and `n=1`. Write a program that takes values for `m` and `n` as input and displays the values of the Pythagorean truple generated by the formulas above.
- [Opgave 2.7](src/exercise-2.7.c) (Uinitialiserede variable) fra [KN slides](http://people.cs.aau.dk/~normark/impr-c/intro-flere-opgaver-slide-exercise-1.html).
- [Self-Check opgave 3 side 106](src/exercise-PSPDC-106-3.c) i Problem Solving and Program Design in C, eighth edition. 
Læs om heltalsdivision med negative tal, lærebogen side 93, inden I løser opgaven. 
I er velkomne til at prøve detaljerne af i et program (hvis I vil tage jer tid til at skrive detaljerne ind i et C program), men tænk først tilfældene igennem ved en diskussion i gruppen.
  - Given the constants and variable declarations
```c
#define PI 3.14159
#define MAX_I 1000
...
double x, y;
int a, b, i;
```

indicate which of the following statements are valid, and find the value stored by each valid statement. Also indicate which are invalid and why. Assume that `a` is `3`, `b` is `4`, and `y` is `-1.0`.

1) `i=a%b;`
2) `i=989-MAX_I)/a;`
3) `i=b%a;`
4) `x=PI*y;`
5) `i=a/-b;`
6) `x=a/b;`
7) `x=a%(a/b);`
8) `i=b/0;`
9) `i=a%(990-MAX_I);`
10) `i=(MAX_I-990) %a;`
11) `x=a/y;`
12) `i=PI*a;`
13) `x=PI/y;`
14) `x=b/a;`
15) `i=(MAX_I-990)%a;`
16) `i=a%0;`
17) `i=a%(MAX_I-990);`
18) `x=(double)a/b;`

- [Opgave 9 side 124](src/exercise-PSPDC-124-9.c) i Problem Solving and Program Design in C, eighth edition.
  - Write a program that takes the length and width of a rectangular yard and the length and width of a rectangular house situated in the yard. Your program should compute the time required to cut the grass at the rate of two square feet a second. (Regn i SI enheder i stedet, dvs, m^2 og m -- benyt 0.2 m^2/s som hastighed.).
- [Opgave 2.6](src/exercise-2.6.c) (Erfaringer med scanf) fra [KN slides](http://people.cs.aau.dk/~normark/impr-c/intro-circle-example-slide-exercise-2.html).
- [Opgave 2.4](src/exercise-2.4.c) (Indlæsning af doubles) fra [KN slides](http://people.cs.aau.dk/~normark/impr-c/intro-scanf-slide-exercise-1.html).
- Hvis I ikke allerede har arbejdet med hjemmeopgave [Opgave 2.3](src/exercise-2.3.c) fra [KN slides](http://people.cs.aau.dk/~normark/impr-c/intro-asignments-ny-2-slide-exercise-1.html) vil jeg anbefale at I ser på denne i fællesskab i gruppen.
- [Opgave 2.1](src/exercise-2.1.c) (Et program der adderer tre tal) fra [KN slides](http://people.cs.aau.dk/~normark/impr-c/intro-types-slide-exercise-1.html) - hvis I er hurtigt færdige, eller hvis de andre opgaver er for kedelige.  Altså kun en opgave for de særligt interesserede...


## Hjemmeopgaver:

- [Self-Check opgave 1 side 88](src/exercise-PSPDC-88-1.c) i Problem Solving and Program Design in C, eighth edition. (Hvis du ønsker at køre programmet, så husk at put det ind i en main funktion).
  - Show the output displayed by the following program lines when the data entered are `5` and `7`:
  ```c
  printf("Enter two integers> ");
  scanf("%d%d", &m, &n);
  m = m + 5;
  n = 3 * n;
  printf("m = %d\nn = %d\n", m, n); 
  ```
- [Programmeringsopgave 2 side 88](src/exercise-PSPDC-88-2.c) i Problem Solving and Program Design in C, eighth edition. (Det er opgaven nederst på siden!)
  - Show the contents of memory before and after the execution of the program lines shown in Exercise 1.
- [Opgave 2.3](src/exercise-2.3.c) (Increment og decrement operatorerne) fra [KN slides](http://people.cs.aau.dk/~normark/impr-c/intro-asignments-ny-2-slide-exercise-1.html)


## Afleveringsopgaver
Der er en afleveringsopgave til lektion 2 som du skal hente fra et andet link og aflevere ved at lave et "commit" efterfulgt af et "push".